Data and experiments:

All data used in this project, are collected from official sources in Norway and Sweeden, respectively SSB and SCB(statistik databasen).
The data from both sources contains all newborn baby names from 1998 to 2019 and the amount of babies that have been given each name.
The data were originally orginized as xmlx files, but we found out that while using python, converting the files to txt files were faster and easier to work with.
It becomes faster and easier because you can simply read each line in the file, searching for the character names and if found append into a list for further data wrangling.

The main hurdle to get over in this project was to convert the datasets into usable data structures that were fast and easy to access. The efficiency, were ensured by the above mentioned technique,
however, a good amount of additional wrangling were needed to make the information plottable. The source code is heavily commented and should provide good insight on what was done.

When plotting the different statistics it was important to make the data easily readable, and they had to be understandable for bystanders without additional knowlegde about the project. 
There were multiple renditions, we found that simplicity was key to displaying the information, and decided to show graphs containing multiple names and showing when the series came out in the same graph. 
To limit the amount of names on each graph we simply limited the amount of episodes the different character names had to be present in the series for them to be "important" enough to be on the graph.
This was particularly important for the Norwegian series "Skam" which feature an enourmous amount of characternames spanning over many episodes, but a limit at 10 episodes were shown to be an efficient metric.
Note that different limits were used for different series, and that if the names plotted in the different statistics is the character names found in the newborn population of Norway and Sweeden between 1998 and 2019.
This means that there might be popular character names which is not in the plots, but that means that there simply are noone that was named that in the period from 1998 to 2019.

Evaluation and result
The results show that there are some increase in babynames after popular series aired, but very few, and there might need to be an additional discussion if the series itself were the main reason for the increase. 
Many of the names that became more popular after the series aired, seems to already be increasing in popularity before the different shows came out, which also might be the reason for the names beeing in the series in the first place.
This is very evident in the plots from the norwegian series "Skam" and the Sweedish series "Wallander". With that said, there is also evidence that points to names beeing directly linked to the different shows, such as Game Of Thrones.
But the statistics is not similair between the two different contries. In Sweeden the names grew alot in popularity in the years following, but in norway there were no girl names from the show evident in the data.
For example Arya, whihc arguably are the most popular name from Game Of thrones, are not given to a single newborn baby from 1998 to 2019. However, when looking further into the data, there were some influx of "Norwegianized" spelling
of the names such as "Aria". This is however not shown in the plotted statistics, and is not a trivial thing to do either.